g'day guys today we're going to have a
look at the Bruce Lee inspired dragon
flag aptly named from the way it makes
you look like a flag fixed out straight
from the effects of a super strong wind
now this is considered an advanced core
exercise because of the overall demand
that it places on the midsection and
core especially in the fully extended
and lowered position from this middle
position your entire body weight is
acting to bend and contort your body out
of alignment and a continual engagement
or fight as it feels like is needed to
not only maintain form but to return to
that starting position because of the
overall demand of fighting your own body
weight is an extended lever
it is a tremendous core strengthening
conditioning exercise that hits your
chest lats and serratus anterior as well
before you get started you really need
to have a great bodily awareness for
bracing a neutral spine engagement
otherwise you'll leave yourself open to
potential injuries so practicing
advanced plank variations and ab will
rollout will really help remember
without the correct alignment and
engagement you'll fail to hold form and
leave your spine vulnerable practice
locking your glutes bracing your middle
exhaling setting your shoulders
neutrally setting your head then taking
in a strong breath feel the difference
that it makes there are a few variations
to the dragon flag but today we're
looking at four to give you some
progressive steps to work toward the
epic dragon flag itself first up is the
bent knee flag the setup is nearly
always the same so find yourself a solid
and stable bench and lie so your head is
nearer to one end reach behind your head
and grip the bench firmly roll and lift
yourself up with bent legs bracing into
a straight alignment and locking your
hips with tight glutes
if you don't lock your glutes out you'll
inevitably bend at the hips which will
look very similar to this also remember
always balance on your upper back and
shoulders not your neck take a sharp
breath in and hold lower slowly until
your feet make contact with the bench
and then lift yourself back to the start
breathe and repeat unfortunately this is
not one of those exercises that you can
rest on during your reps you have to say
100% engaged throughout go for quality
not quantity and slow and steady is your
goal if your form fails then that's the
end of the set and yes it's incredibly
taxing as you get comfortable with this
bent knee variation move along the bench
so you can hang your legs at a right
angle see yourself up and perform just
like before look at those hips and lower
full range so your butt nearly touches
the bench this will make it more
demanding by taking it through a fuller
range naturally repeat for quality and
full control and remember to breathe
third is a straddle which gets you into
a fully extended position whilst
reducing the overall lever length of the
body remember
setup is the same as before extend the
legs out in a V and lock your quads and
glutes together this time this will help
you radiate tension throughout your hips
and body and help you to hold throughout
the entire range lastly as a full dragon
flag which will require your full
attention and control and in fact the
slower the rep the greater the
development time and attention is what
we were after here we're all up and grip
the bench with a vice-like grip balance
your weight on the shoulders and upper
back extend out brace locking glutes and
quads take a sharp breath in and lower
control the descent and go as low as you
can
whilst maintaining control but aim for a
nice full range if you feel your
alignment slipping lower to the bench
and reset once it range hold tighter and
harder and draw yourself back to that
starting position once again
only repeat for quality the dragon flag
is a great exercise that will really
strengthen up that midsection and your
ability to hold a tight brace throughout
a dynamic range it's also a great
transition into other lever variations
take your time and keep your body locked
straight and tight especially through
the hips
use strong breathing to reinforce
tension throughout the body and only
seek those quality reps remember to hit
us up at iron edge.com data you for all
your equipment and training needs
you